README.md, before:

# WrkGrp_SpatialDemo
Ml/AI Working Group Spatial Demo in 'R'
December 20th, 2018

## Overview

This repo was created for AECOM's Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Working Group Meeting on December 20th, 2018. The author hopes that the code and documentation provided here will act as both a basic Introduction to 'R' and offer supplementary workflows for differing tasks involving spatial data. Traditionally, tasks involving spatial data would be completed in a GIS. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are, “a specialist information technology (IT) used for handling mapped data” (Burrough, McDonnell, & Llyod, 2015). The most popular of these systems is ESRI's ArcGIS, a gooey interface for managing and visualizing spatial data. Increasingly, GIS related tasks are accomplished in a coding environment such as ‘R’ or ‘Python’. For those who are familiar with GIS technologies and software - this is different than coding in an ArcPy console.

Although, there are certain GIS tasks that are better suited for a traditional GIS environment, there are many that are best to R or the Conda environment for Python. The control and reproducibility, offered in the coding environment, is leaps and bounds ahead of anything a traditional GIS can do. As capabilities around spatial data manipulation and analysis in R increase more people, GIS Specialists and Novices, are looking to use R as a GIS.

The contents of this repo are very simplistic but I hope any user enjoys getting their feet wet!!!!

## Documation 
Code:

Data:

Commit message:

Added instructions on how to install 'R' and 'RStudio' to the README. Added a section on loading spatial data from both a geodatabase or shapefile. Small portion added on joining tabular data to spatial data.

README.md, after:

# WrkGrp_SpatialDemo
Ml/AI Working Group Spatial Demo in 'R'
December 20th, 2018

## Overview

This repo was created for AECOM's Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Working Group Meeting on December 20th, 2018. The author hopes that the code and documentation provided here will act as both a basic Introduction to 'R' and offer supplementary workflows for differing tasks involving spatial data. Traditionally, tasks involving spatial data would be completed in a GIS. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are, “a specialist information technology (IT) used for handling mapped data” (Burrough, McDonnell, & Llyod, 2015). The most popular of these systems is ESRI's ArcGIS, a gooey interface for managing and visualizing spatial data. Increasingly, GIS related tasks are accomplished in a coding environment such as ‘R’ or ‘Python’. For those who are familiar with GIS technologies and software - this is different than coding in an ArcPy console.

Although, there are certain GIS tasks that are better suited for a traditional GIS environment, there are many that are best to R or the Conda environment for Python. The control and reproducibility, offered in the coding environment, is leaps and bounds ahead of anything a traditional GIS can do. As capabilities around spatial data manipulation and analysis in R increase more people, GIS Specialists and Novices, are looking to use R as a GIS.

The contents of this repo are very simplistic but I hope any user enjoys getting their feet wet!!!!

## New to the 'R' Programming Language?
If you are an employee at AECOM you will need Temp Admin to complete the following installations.

**Install R**
Open an internet browser and go to www.r-project.org.
Click the "download R" link in the middle of the page under "Getting Started."
Select a CRAN location (a mirror site) and click the corresponding link.
Click on the "Download R for (Mac) OS X" link at the top of the page.
Click on the file containing the latest version of R under "Files."
Save the .pkg file, double-click it to open, and follow the installation instructions.
Now that R is installed, you need to download and install RStudio.

**Install RStudio**
Go to www.rstudio.com and click on the "Download RStudio" button.
Click on "Download RStudio Desktop."
Click on the version recommended for your system, or the latest Mac version, save the .dmg file on your computer, double-click it to open, and then drag and drop it to your applications folder.

## Documation 
Code:

Data:
